Update documentation around project use cases (#4969)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/con_project-use-cases.adoc

ifdef::satellite[]
{Project} helps you provision hosts, manage patches and content, strengthen security, and understand infrastructure health across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.
endif::[]
ifdef::katello,orcharhino[]
{Project} helps you provision hosts, manage patches and content, and strengthen security across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.
endif::[]
ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb[]
{Project} helps you provision hosts and strengthen security across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.
endif::[]
ifndef::orcharhino[]
You can also benefit from AI-powered assistance by deploying the Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for {Project}, which enables you to interact with your infrastructure using natural language.
endif::[]

{Project} focuses on the following use cases:

Provisioning::
Deploy consistently configured hosts on bare metal, virtual machines, and cloud instances from a unified interface.
+
{Project} automates key stages of the deployment lifecycle, including network configuration, operating system installation, and post-installation tasks.

> For example, you can define templates, partition layouts, and activation keys to achieve flexibility in how you deploy hosts.

Reviewer: Foreman on EL/Deb does not support AKs. On a very high level, they also see off in this description because they are a Foreman+Katello-specific concept.

Maybe:

```suggestion
ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb[]
For example, you can define templates and partition layouts to achieve flexibility in how you deploy hosts.
endif::[]
ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]
For example, you can define templates, partition layouts, and available software to achieve flexibility in how you deploy hosts.
endif::[]
```

What do you think?

Author: Great, thanks!

+
{Project} automates key stages of the deployment lifecycle, including network configuration, operating system installation, and post-installation tasks.
ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb[]
For example, you can define templates and partition layouts to achieve flexibility in how you deploy hosts.
endif::[]
ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]
For example, you can define templates, partition layouts, and available software to achieve flexibility in how you deploy hosts.
endif::[]
+
This approach helps reduce deployment time, standardize the provisioning process, and support scaling of your infrastructure.

ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]
Patch management and content distribution::
Apply updates to hosts in a consistent, scalable, and repeatable manner.
Import, organize, and distribute content to hosts.
+
{Project} enables you to import, organize, and distribute content to hosts while staying in control of which versions of content reaches which hosts and when.
For example, you can schedule maintenance windows, test updates in staging environments, and roll out patches across your infrastructure with controlled deployment strategies.
+

> This approach provides enhanced control over what software runs in your environment and reduces the manual effort required to keep systems up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach provides enhanced control over what software runs in your environment and reduces the manual effort required to keep hosts up to date.
```

endif::[]

Security management::

> Reduce the effort required to secure host environments at scale.

Author: ```suggestion
Reduce the effort required to secure hosts at scale.
```

> Reduce the effort required to secure host environments at scale.

Reviewer: "to secure host environments" could either be "to secure hosts" or "to secure your hosts" or "to secure your environments" or "to secure hosts in your environment". Your call if you want to pick one of these suggestions.

+
{Project} helps you enforce security policies, scan for vulnerabilities, and remediate compliance violations across your infrastructure.

> For example, you can integrate with security scanning tools, track compliance against security baselines, and set up procedures to help ensure hosts meet regulatory requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can integrate {Project} with security scanning tools, track compliance against security baselines, and set up procedures to help ensure hosts meet regulatory requirements.
```

+

> This capability enables centralized security oversight, supports incident response, and helps reduce the attack surface of your systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This capability enables centralized security oversight, supports incident response, and helps reduce the attack surface of your hosts.
```

Knowledge and analytics::
Identify potential issues and gain a comprehensive view of your infrastructure.
+
{Project} collects data from hosts, generates reports on system status and trends, and provides dashboards that visualize infrastructure health.
For example, you can monitor resource utilization, track configuration changes, and identify patterns.
+
This knowledge helps you make informed decisions about your infrastructure and spot potential problems.

Configuration management::
Apply configurations to hosts in a consistent and repeatable manner.
+
{Project} integrates with configuration management tools to define desired state, enforce policies, and remediate drift across your infrastructure.

> For example, you can manage configurations as code, version control your infrastructure definitions, and automate the application of changes to help keep hosts compliant with organizational standards.

Reviewer: Your call:

```suggestion
For example, you can manage configurations as code, version control your infrastructure definitions, and automate updates to help keep hosts compliant with organizational standards.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="{project-context}-use-cases"]
= {Project} use cases

[role="_abstract"]

> {ProjectName} is a centralized tool for provisioning,

Author: The AbstractLength failure is only due to conditionals. The rendered text is within the required limit.

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="{project-context}-use-cases"]
= {Project} use cases

[role="_abstract"]
{ProjectName} is a centralized tool for provisioning,
ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]
content delivery,
endif::[]
remote management, and monitoring of multiple {client-os} deployments.
With {Project}, you can deploy, configure, and maintain your systems across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.

ifdef::satellite[]
{ProjectName} helps you provision hosts, manage patches and content, strengthen security, and understand infrastructure health across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.
endif::[]
ifdef::katello,orcharhino[]

> ifndef::satellite[]

Reviewer 2: Isn't this redundant? I thought that if `katello` is defined, you never have `satellite` defined.

{ProjectName} helps you provision hosts, manage patches and content, and strengthen security across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.
endif::[]
endif::[]
ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb[]

> ifndef::katello[]

Reviewer 2: Same as above

{ProjectName} helps you provision hosts and strengthen security across physical, virtual, and cloud environments.
endif::[]
endif::[]
ifndef::orcharhino[]
You can also benefit from AI-powered assistance by deploying the Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for {Project}, which enables you to interact with your infrastructure using natural language.
endif::[]

{ProjectName} focuses on the following use cases:

> Provisioning::

Reviewer 2: Todo: link to the provisioning hosts guide

Author: Just for completeness, I'll also note that concept modules can no longer include links in the module's body. Any link that we decide to add would have to go in an `.Additional resources` section. With that in mind, we should also make sure that `.Additional resources` don't just duplicate a list of guides that users can easily see at docs.theforeman.org.

Reviewer 2: You could make a point that this content should live directly on https://theforeman.org/ as well and from there point to the guides.

Author: I could, but that wouldn't get me much closer to my goal, which is updating product documentation -- including the downstream one :)

Deploy consistently configured hosts on bare metal, virtual machines, and cloud instances from a unified interface.
+
{ProjectName} automates key stages of the deployment lifecycle, including network configuration, operating system installation, and post-installation tasks.

> For example, you can define templates, partition layouts, and activation keys to help ensure hosts meet the standards set by your organization.

Reviewer 2: I'd say all those examples are there to provide the flexibility during the key stages of the deployment. Meeting standards is secondary. Not sure how others feel about that.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @ekohl , I think flexibility is our strength here. Users are free to take all of these tools that we provide to automate varying sorts of host provisioning in all manners of ways.

+

> This approach helps reduce deployment time, minimize configuration drift, and support scaling of your infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: Configuration drift only happens after provisioning is finished and is is a configuration management feature.

Historically Foreman had the view that you provision a host and the goal is to hand it over to configuration management after. With bootable containers that view will shift a bit, but bootable containers avoid configuration drift in another way (by minimizing state altogether).

And it indeed aims to make deployment faster, but a big part is also standardizing the process. That helps with scaling your infra.

> ifdef::foreman-el,foreman-deb[]

Reviewer 2: Patch management is IMHO a Katello feature.
```suggestion
ifndef::foreman-el,foreman-deb[]
```

Reviewer 3: I was going to comment the same :+1:

> Patch management::

Reviewer 2: Todo: link to the managing content guide

Apply updates to hosts in a consistent, scalable, and repeatable manner.
+

> {ProjectName} helps you schedule maintenance windows, test updates in staging environments, and roll out patches across your infrastructure with controlled deployment strategies.

Reviewer 3: I like this definition of Katello, I think it represents its core use cases well.

For example, you can track patch compliance, identify vulnerable systems, and set up workflows to help maintain security posture.
+
This capability reduces the manual effort required to keep systems up to date and helps minimize the risk of security vulnerabilities.
endif::[]

> ifdef::katello,orcharhino,satellite[]

Reviewer 2: I'd combine this with the same conditional as the above section: patch management is effectively the same as content management for us.

Author: If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for clarification this part:

> patch management is effectively the same as content management for us.

Is it really? The two use cases -- patch management and content management/distribution -- are related but are they the same? The way I understand it is that patching ensures that hosts stay secure and up-to-date and while patches rely on the right content being available, content distribution as such is a broader area than just that. Or am I missing something?

Author: But no question about merging these two conditionals. That was a bit of an embarrassing mistake on my part anyway, I confused one of them with another use case 🤡

> Content management and patch distribution::

Reviewer 2: Todo: link to the managing content guide

Import, organize, and distribute content to hosts.
Apply updates to hosts in a consistent, scalable, and repeatable manner.
+
{ProjectName} synchronizes content from multiple repositories, filters and promotes content through content views, and delivers updates to hosts based on their lifecycle stage.
For example, you can control which versions of content reaches which hosts and when, test updates in staging environments, schedule deployments to reduce service disruption, and track patch compliance to identify vulnerable systems.
+
This approach provides enhanced control over what software runs in your environment.
endif::[]

> Security management::

Reviewer 2: Todo: link to the managing security compliance guide.

Reduce the effort required to secure host environments at scale.
+
{ProjectName} helps you enforce security policies, scan for vulnerabilities, and remediate compliance violations across your infrastructure.
For example, you can integrate with security scanning tools, track compliance against security baselines, and set up procedures to help ensure hosts meet regulatory requirements.
+
This capability enables centralized security oversight, supports incident response, and helps reduce the attack surface of your systems.

> Knowledge and analytics::

Reviewer 2: I wonder where we have this. In the managing hosts guide?

Author: I suspect our guides might not always map precisely to these use cases. At least some of our guides are feature-based (content, hosts) and use cases might pull in multiple features.

Ideally, our documentation should be organized in a way that begins with the use cases as a high-level starting point (think one guide per use case), and then that would make it easy to link to docs from this section. I recognize that saying "Foreman can do this super cool thing" without clearly pointing to guidance on how to achieve it is not great, but it's at least a good first step (and IMO a very necessary thing to do in general).

Reviewer 2: I think it's been an underdeveloped area for a long time. https://github.com/theforeman/foreman_statistics was extracted from core and barely sees any activity. Perhaps the whole project should think about how we can support this use case.

Edit: https://theforeman.org/ has some things that work towards this, but I think it's outdated.

Identify potential issues and gain a comprehensive view of your infrastructure.
+
{ProjectName} collects data from hosts, generates reports on system status and trends, and provides dashboards that visualize infrastructure health.
For example, you can monitor resource utilization, track configuration changes, and identify patterns.
+
This knowledge helps you make informed decisions about your infrastructure and spot potential problems.

ifndef::satellite[]

> Configuration management::

Reviewer 2: Todo: link to Ansible, Puppet, and Salt guides (where applicable).

Apply configurations to hosts in a consistent and repeatable manner.
{ProjectName} integrates with configuration management tools to define desired state, enforce policies, and remediate drift across your infrastructure.
+
For example, you can manage configurations as code, version control your infrastructure definitions, and automate the application of changes to help keep hosts compliant with organizational standards.
+
This approach reduces manual configuration errors, supports change deployment, and helps maintain consistency across diverse environments.
endif::[]

ifdef::satellite[]

> In addition to these core capabilities, you can also use {Project} for subscription expenses management and to apply configurations to hosts in a consistent and repeatable manner.

Reviewer 3: I think this came up in the last pass of writing down these use cases,  but I'm still a bit confused about the subscription expenses management part. Is this referring to Satellite being used in conjunction with console.redhat.com? 

> and to apply configurations to hosts in a consistent and repeatable manner.
I'm not sure what this part means, it sounds like configuration management.

Author: The expense management part is referring to https://docs.theforeman.org/3.18/Planning_for_Project/index-katello.html#expense-management-for-red-hat-subscriptions, which has been added quite recently as a valid use case so I wanted to make sure it was covered at least like this, outside of the main use cases.

Looking at it now, however, perhaps it relates to the "Knowledge & Analytics" use case"? That use case talks about resource utilization, which does seem related to the existing Expense management section.

I'll try removing it, the reference has been causing too much confusion here so it's probably not that helpful in its current form.

Author: > > and to apply configurations to hosts in a consistent and repeatable manner.

 > I'm not sure what this part means, it sounds like configuration management.

That is indeed configuration management. Config management as a separate use case is now listed only for non-Satellite builds. For Satellite, it's still valid but not to be listed at the same level as the other four use cases.

Author: I asked for further clarification and guidance, and resolved this by removing the Satellite-specific parts.

Reviewer 3: > That is indeed configuration management. Config management as a separate use case is now listed only for non-Satellite builds. For Satellite, it's still valid but not to be listed at the same level as the other four use cases.

Ah okay, my confusion was in part because I forgot that the earlier configuration management part is hidden for Satellite.  But removing it sounds good for now.

> The expense management part is referring to https://docs.theforeman.org/3.18/Planning_for_Project/index-katello.html#expense-management-for-red-hat-subscriptions, which has been added quite recently as a valid use case so I wanted to make sure it was covered at least like this, outside of the main use cases.

> Looking at it now, however, perhaps it relates to the "Knowledge & Analytics" use case"? That use case talks about resource utilization, which does seem related to the existing Expense management section.

> I'll try removing it, the reference has been causing too much confusion here so it's probably not that helpful in its current form.

Yeah, our subscription tracking bits are a bit on the weaker side in my opinion anyway.
